The Hermes agent now finally has a
desktop app, which means you can access
the Hermes agent directly from your
computer without having to do any manual
setup. Hermes agent is this
self-improving agent that gets better
and better as time passes. It learns
from your conversations and improves
itself. This framework was released a
few months ago, but at that time you had
to host it yourself to access it. But
now with the desktop app, anyone out
there can get started very very easily.
You can use your favorite AI model,
maybe by OpenAI, maybe by claude or any
other and you can start using the Hermes
agent every single day. Get it to do
your everyday tasks and just see how it
improves at doing your own tasks unlike
other AI assistants to whom you have to
repeat the same instructions over and
over again because they simply don't
learn from working. So in this video,
I'm going to walk you through the
installation process of the Hermes
agent. I'm going to walk you through the
different features that the desktop app
offers and I'm also going to show you
some amazing use cases that you can use
for your everyday tasks. For example,
things like computer use wherein the
Hermes agent can control your computer,
things like browser control, things
likeuling automations, spinning up agent
teams, etc. So, if you're interested in
setting up this agent that grows with
you, watch this video till the very end.
So, hello everyone. My name is Yashika
Jen. I'm the founder of Automates AI. My
job is to use AI and its applications to
help businesses automate their everyday
manual tasks. If you're interested, you
can check out the link to our website in
the description and book a call with our
team to get started. So, let's continue
with the Hermes agent now. So, I'll put
the link to this page in the description
down below or you can simply search for
the Hermes agent. You'll land on this
page and from here just head over to the
desktop app and simply install. Then,
you simply have to open the application
and click on install. That is going to
start installing the Hermes agent for
you. And once that is done, you just
have to launch Hermes. After that, it's
going to do a quick one-time setup. Next
up, we have to choose a model provider
for our Hermes agent. So, it's very
important for you to understand that the
Hermes agent is not an AI assistant.
Instead, it is an agent framework, which
means that there's the skeleton, there's
no firings, etc. But the brain is
missing. And here, we have to basically
give it access to the brain, which is
the AI model. Now here again you have
two different options. So either you can
go with a monthly subscription wherein
you're paying them monthly or else you
can go with usagebased billing wherein
you only pay for what you use and even
out of these I would suggest going with
open router. So open router is this one
service that will help you connect to
hundreds of AI models may be by chargic
anyone you name it they have it and
again it is pay as you go so it's a
win-win situation. So simply select open
router. If you want to select any other,
it's up to you. I'm going to go with
this one. And here we have to paste the
API key for open router. Then head over
to open router.ai. I'll put the link in
the description. Create an account and
head over to your workspace. From here
go to API keys, generate a new key.
Let's call it the Hermes desktop agent.
You can add a credit limit if you want
and choose that it doesn't expire and
create it. Copy that and paste it back
right here and click on connect. All
right. So, it's connected and we can
begin. By default, it has chosen the
Claude Fable 5 model which is the most
expensive one and the best one till
date, but we will change that. So, let's
begin. In your open router account, head
over to credits and make sure you add
about $5 to $10 so that it can actually
function. It is usage based billing, but
you still need to recharge your account,
your wallet for it to work. And we are
in. The first thing that we're going to
do is change the model. So head over to
the settings button and from here change
the model. So something like cloth
sonnet should work. As I said, you can
choose from a variety of options and
apply it. All right. So now if you send
it a message, it should be able to
reply. All right. So that was about the
setup. Now let me show you around a
little bit. So if you click on these
three dots, that will open up your
profile. So this is the place where you
can basically customize the Hermes agent
to fit your needs. So it's more like a
system prompt or you could call it the
soul.md file wherein you have to give it
instructions about its persona. For
example, right now it is quite basic
that you're Hermes agent. Help them with
a wide range of tasks. Right? So we can
customize this. So here's what I
replaced it with. So I'm telling it
you're Hermes agent. Your purpose is to
help me think clearly, make progress,
solve problems, and execute effectively.
Here are your core principles. Here's
the communication style. Be concise.
Explain the complex topics. Then a
little bit about problem solving, the
mindset. When you're uncertain, state
what is known, state what is unknown.
The goal is not merely to provide
answers, but to help me make better
decisions and achieve meaningful
results. And I'm going to save it. Now I
will give you access to this particular
prompt. In case you want to use the same
one, just look for the resources in the
description. And that is how we have
customized our Hermes agent to match our
needs. All right. Next up, head over to
skills and tools. So right now, my
Hermes agent has 71 inbuilt skills.
Skills are nothing else but instructions
that the agent has to follow whenever it
is doing something related to the skill.
For example, if it is controlling my
computer, it is going to use the Mac OS
computer use skill. Or else, if I scroll
here, there's a PowerPoint skill. So, if
it wants to create a slide, if it wants
to read anything, edit, then it's going
to use this skill. And this skill has
instructions about how it should execute
a PowerPoint related task so that it
gets better at doing that. Now, these
are inbuilt skills. You can also have
skills of your own. For example, you do
a particular task all the time. So you
can create a skill around it that
whenever the Hermes agent helps you with
that task, it reads the skill that
already has the instructions in it. And
here we can also see the tool sets
wherein it is showing all the different
tools that our Hermes agent has. For
example, file operations, for example,
image generation, memory, computer use,
chron jobs, discord, etc. If you go to
artifacts here, so any sort of files
that it generates, any images it
generates, all of them will be stored at
this one place called artifacts. Then
any charts that take place will be
stored right here just like chat GPD
etc. And then here you can go to
settings. This was the place where we
configured the model. Also, you can
select models for certain tasks. For
example, vision task is going to be for
example done by 5.5. Just taking an
example or let me cancel this. Or for
example uh web extraction is being done
by let's say 3.5 flash. So here you can
override the models for certain tasks.
Then there are other settings as well
like appearance etc. There is memory and
context. So memory is the reason why
we're using the Hermes agent because it
never forgets. It just gets better and
better and that is exactly because of
these settings right here. Persistent
memory is the exact same feature that
will help it retain the memory and it
contributes to the self-improving loop.
Here there are some settings that you
can change though I wouldn't suggest
doing that but if you want to you can
for example the compression threshold
etc. I've talked about this in my last
Hermes agent video but again I would say
keep it to the default at least for now.
Then some more settings that you can go
through. You can also connect it to
different MCPs like if you want to use
different gateways you can configure
that here. So yeah, that was a quick
tour of the app, right? And now we can
get into the use cases. The first use
case that I want to show you is actually
about computer use. So computer use is
this functionality wherein the Hermes
agent can actually access my computer.
So it can take screenshots, it can move
the mouse, it can use the keyboard, it
can scroll, it can drag, basically do
everything that I can do. Now, it might
sound a little dangerous, and yes, it
is. But if you give it the proper
instructions and tell it its boundaries,
this one can really save you time. The
best use case of this is cleaning up
your computer. All of our folders are
messy, right? Things are here there. No
one is cleaning it. Or maybe some people
are. I'm not. So, I can actually use the
Hermes agent to help me organize my
files and folders. If you're too
hesitant, you can also just tell it to
move things that are not of use to a
certain folder instead of deleting them.
Right? So yeah, if you set the correct
boundaries, this can help you. So let me
give it a task. Hey Hermes, I want you
to look at the downloads folder and the
documents folder inside of my computer
file system. I want you to find all the
screenshots that I have been taking that
are lying around here and there. And
then I want you to create a new folder
on my desktop called as screenshots and
move all of those screenshots to that
folder. All right, got it. And now I'm
going to send this. So this is how the
desktop folder looks like at the moment.
Now I'm going to send this and it's
done. Like it not take even 2 minutes.
Like it was quick. So it found 21
screenshots in both of these folders and
it has moved all of them. All right.
Yeah, here's the folder and here are the
screenshots. So, it basically looked at
all the file names that have the word
screenshot in them. So, see, I did not
ask it to delete them. I just asked it
to move it. And now I can just delete it
myself if if I want to. Now, similarly,
you can ask it to find duplicate files.
You can ask it to find any sort of
files, move it somewhere. You can ask it
to classify your entire folders. It is
good at all of that. The next use case
that I want to talk about is the browser
automation. So it can actually navigate,
click, type and scroll on a browser. Now
you would think that yes, Charg can do
it. Well, that is called web searching.
That is not browser automation. If you
ask Chargd to go to a particular YouTube
video and get you the comments of that
video, it won't be able to do that. If
you ask it to go to your competitor's
social media posts and get you a list of
the top performing ones, it might not be
able to do that because web search is
very different from browser automation.
Web search is just like searching
Google. Whereas in a browser automation,
it can do everything that you can do. So
I hope you get the difference. Hey
Hermes, open the browser and search for
Yashika Jen's YouTube channel. Once you
find it, I want you to curate a list of
Yashika's top 10 competitors on YouTube
that focus on the same niche and put the
same type of content. Once you get that,
I want you to look at the videos that
they have posted in the last 2 weeks.
Analyze those videos, tell me about the
top performing content, and then I want
you to also look into those videos
comments and see what people are
suggesting. for example, what types of
videos they want to see in the future.
Any content idea that you can find from
those video comments, you have to
extract them and put them in the final
report that you're giving to me. So,
this is a two week report of the latest
content posted by Yashika Jen's
competitors on YouTube. All right. So,
here's our prompt and let's send it
through. And as you can see, it is
following this checklist. Now, if you
pay attention here, here's the
difference. So, this is browser
automation. it opened it and this is web
search where it is searching right so
here's the clear difference in front of
you all right so it worked for about
good 5 6 minutes and then it came back
with this report so it has done
everything that I wanted it to do it
actually went into the browser it went
into the videos and it got all of this
content for me and here's the report it
came back with now if you put the same
prompt in another agent that does not
have browser access you'll to see the
difference yourself. For example, here
it's even able to extract the number of
views etc. the number of videos all of
that because of having the access to the
browser. So again you can think for
yourself what is the task that you're
manually doing inside a browser that can
be easily automated and then you can
tell it to do that for you. Our next use
case is around cron jobs. So you can
think of chron jobs as scheduled
automations. So, these are tasks that
run at a defined time. For example, you
have to search this, this, and this
every single morning and return it to
me. Or you have to send a to-do list
inside of the Slack channel. You can
also see a small button of cron right
here at the bottom. You can either
manually create a cron job or just ask
the Hermes agent. I prefer asking it.
So, let me show you an example of how
you can set up a cron job. Let me
dictate my prompt. Hey, Hermes. So, I
want you to set up a cron job for me
that runs every 3 days. So my goal is to
know about any new features or
functionalities released by Enthropic or
Claude. It can be around claude code,
claude itself, any new feature, any new
product, even things that people are
building with a claude and basically
everything that a claude nerd wants to
know about. And to get this content, I
want you to scrape Reddit, basically the
latest posts on Reddit, um, basically
the last 3 days for the last 3 days. And
I want you to create a PDF report out of
that and give it to me so that I can
skim through and I can understand what
all is happening inside the Claude
ecosystem or the Claude community
basically. And as far as the Reddit
community is concerned or the thread is
concerned, you can search it yourself
and pick the one that you think would
work the best for you. All right, let me
send this. And it is done. So this is
going to run every 3 days. The first run
is going to be on June 15. And it's
going to automatically save a file on my
computer that I can open which will be
the report basically. And this is the
structure of it. And if you want, we can
run one right now. Yes, run it. All
right, it's done. And it took good 6
minutes to complete it. Now, if you want
to access this file, it is there on your
computer. You can open it or if you
want, you can also go to artifact and
then files and find it right here. So,
here's the file it came up with. It's a
13page
document. Can you [music] believe it?
And the top five most notable things
right here. And it's also linking to
those Reddit posts. So yeah, great work.
So we have community discussions,
anthropic news, what people are
building. So like it's good for taking
inspiration, right? Claude code. All
right. Beautiful. And if you look
closely here under cron jobs, it is
listed and it runs in 3 days. Awesome.
So now you know that if you want to
automate anything, it's just a prompt
away. You just have to tell it and it
will schedule it for you and it's not
just for scraping etc. It can be any
task. If you want to run Hermes at a
particular time, you can use cron jobs.
The next use case on the list is sub
agents. So if you click on agents right
here, you will see this window. So
basically right now we were doing
one-on-one, but if you want you can spin
up multiple agents that can help you
achieve a single task. This can be used
when you need different opinions. If you
want to get a complex task done quickly,
if you want each agent to specialize in
different jobs, you can use this. And to
be honest, remember the second use case
we took which was um you know searching
YouTube my competitors and getting the
list out of it. I saw right here that it
spun up three agents on its own and all
of them were working parallelly to get
the job done. So in that case it found
the need of having multiple people the
need of delegating. So it did that but
sometimes you can ask it to do that for
you. So let me take an example right
here. Hey Hermes, everyone is talking
about SpaceX entering the US stock
market and I am not very sure if I
should invest or not. So I want you to
spin up two different agents. The first
agent is going to talk in the favor of
the SpaceX IPO. So, it's going to search
the web, search relevant blog post,
sources, etc., and it's going to come up
with the answer to why I should invest
in SpaceX. And then I want you to spin
up another agent which is going to talk
the opposite. Basically, why I shouldn't
invest in SpaceX. And then there's going
to be you, the main agent that comes up
with the final verdict, if I should or
shouldn't invest in SpaceX. All right?
So, let's send it. Now, if I were to
give this task to just one agent, then
maybe the result could be a bit biased.
But now that I'm giving it to two
different agents, they're going to
search two different sources. And my
final result is going to be an actual
verdict, nonbiased. And if I click right
here, as we can see, two agents are
active. So, delegation one, two workers,
two active. So, this is the first one,
and this is the second one. So, as you
can see, this is for and this is
against. So we're having a mini debate
here between the AI agents. So let's see
what is the final verdict and we've got
the response back. So some numbers here.
Then this is agent one's response of why
you should invest. Okay. And we have
some numbers right here with some math
going on. So this is the valuation it
came up with. And then there is agent 2
why you should not invest. For example,
94x trailing revenue etc. Okay. And then
our main agent is giving us the verdict.
So, it's saying not at the IBO price,
but don't ignore it entirely. Okay. And
here's the final final recommendation it
is giving. Obviously, not financial
advice, but it really helps. Like, if
you go in manually to search all of
this, going to take you a lot of time.
It's like even quicker than you know
reading one blog post. So, that's how
you use agents. So, this one I did was
for research. You can do it for
achieving a particular task. As I said,
breaking down complex tasks into simpler
ones, assigning different
specializations to different agents, the
possibilities are endless. And that
right there was all about the Hermes
desktop app. As I said in the very
beginning, it is a self-improving agent.
So, as you get it to do tasks for you,
it's just going to get better at them
and you can always create skills around
them. For example, you're generating a
LinkedIn post. So, you generate it for
the first time, you gave it feedback.
Now the next time it will have that
knowledge so that you don't have to
repeat the same thing again and again.
As far as the use cases are concerned, I
tried to show you the most unique ones
that I found for the Hermes agent.
Obviously, there's much more to it.
Can't cover it in a single video. I'll
have to come up with a course for that.
But yeah, I just hope this video was
very valuable for you and it'll help you
get started with the Hermes desktop app.
If that was the case, don't forget to
like the video, do subscribe to the
channel, and let me know in the
comments. If you do subscribe to the
channel and turn on the bell
notification, you will know every time I
post a video and since you watched this
one till the very end, I can tell that
you are interested in this space [music]
and hence I would highly recommend
subscribing to my channel. Apart from
that, let me know in the comments what
other use cases come to your mind when
you think about Hermes. In the very
beginning, I mentioned about my agency
automates AI. So elaborating on top of
that. So we basically help businesses
automate their processes using AI. So
our first step is identifying
opportunities for AI implementation and
then we go ahead and implement them for
you. It can help you save time, scale
without increasing your headcount and
obviously increase revenue. If you're
interested, book a call with our team
today. If anyone wants to get on a
one-on-one consulting session with me,
you'll find the link to my consulting
calendar in the description down below.
Don't forget to follow me on LinkedIn as
well as X for some more exclusive
content. If you want to connect with me
personally, you can also send me a
connection request on LinkedIn. All
right, so that is pretty much it for
this video. I will meet you in the next
one.